--- 
name: Constructions of Cover-free families on Paths and Cycles using a mixed-radix Gray code 
speakers: 
 - Prangya Parida  
categories:
 - Contributed
--- 
 
A family of subsets of a $$t$$-set is called a \emph{$$d$$-cover-free family} ($$d$$-CFF) if no subset in the family is contained in the union of any $$d$$ other subsets. A $$2$$-CFF can be generalized by introducing a graph $$G$$, where the vertices correspond to subsets in the family. A \emph{cover-free family on a graph $$G$$} is a set system such that, for each edge in $$G$$, the corresponding pair of subsets are not contained in one another, and their union does not contain any other subset in the system. We denote by $$t(G)$$ the minimum integer $$t$$ for which such a family exists.

On the other hand, a \emph{binary Gray code} of length $$n$$ is an ordered sequence of binary $$n$$-tuples in which successive codewords differ in exactly one digit. A \emph{mixed-radix Gray code} generalizes this concept by allowing each coordinate to take values from a different base, with successive entries differing in only one digit. Donald Knuth discusses \emph{reflected} and \emph{modular} mixed-radix Gray codes in The Art of Computer Programming, Volume 4A  and presents loopless algorithms for their generation.

In this talk, we present two recursive constructions of mixed-radix modular Gray codes and show that they are the same objects generated by the Greedy Algorithm proposed by Williams. We further show how mixed-radix modular Gray codes can be used to construct CFFs on paths ($$P_n$$) and cycles ($$C_n$$) with $$n$$ vertices. This leads to the upper bound in $$\log(n) \leq t(G) \leq 1.89 \log(n)$$, where $$G$$ is either $$P_n$$ or $$C_n$$.

This is joint work with Lucia Moura.